[ALBERT chuckles]
Ah, Souma. Sorry
for making you wait
until the end of
the year to see us.
It's been too long
since last we met, Majesty.
Far too long.
[ELISHA]
Sit, please. Let us talk.
[ALBERT] My congratulations
on winning the war
with Amidonia and
annexing the territory.
Quite an impressive feat
for having only been
on the throne for six months.
That's very kind.
I asked to see you numerous
times since you abdicated.
Now, finally,
you've agreed to meet.
As we said, we're terribly sorry
for making you wait so long.
Whenever I asked
for an audience,
I was given excuses
and told that I would
know the truth one day.
So, then, is today that day?
If that is what
you most desire, yes.
[SOUMA]
Hmm.
I have some burning questions
that'll help me know
what you were thinking.
[ALBERT chuckles]
There're three things
I want to ask.
Number one,
When you first summoned me
to this world,
right then is when you
stepped down from the throne.
And you even offered
to make Liscia my fiancée.
Which was odd.
It was the first time
we had ever even met.
Not to mention how young I am.
Why would you decide
to entrust everything to me?
[SOUMA]
Number two, Georg's devotion.
Not only was the man willing
to be dragged through the mud,
he formed a suicide pact with my
enemies to ensure their defeat.
It's all too strange.
The plan required
some careful preparation,
and cost him his life.
It worked out, but only
because of his sense of loyalty.
I find it hard to believe
that it was for me,
since he and I were strangers.
Where was that
loyalty really directed?
If not for me...
...it must have been for you.
And lastly, why have you refused
to meet with me until now?
Why did I have
to wait all this time?
[ALBERT]
That's all you wish to know?
Let's start with those three.
If you insist.
I would like to begin my
answer by observing that all
of the questions you asked
have something in common.
A single factor.
And just what is that?
I hope you don't mind me
answering your inquiries
out of order.
But in regards to
your third question,
we debated whether or not
we should tell you this.
Or, if it was better to take
the secret to our graves.
The fact is, the misdeeds I have
committed are many and severe.
I am not strong enough
to keep them locked away.
[gasps]
Let me ask: Has there been
a point where you wished
you could redo
part of your life?
I have felt that
many times before.
After I took over, I wondered--
How could I have
done things better?
Could I have somehow managed
to save some more lives?
But why would you ask me that?
What I'm about to tell you
took place long ago.
Please bear that in mind
while you listen to it.
Once upon a time,
a king ruled over a nation.
But, unfortunately,
he was a very mediocre leader.
Then, one day, a request came
from a great country to the west
to perform a hero summoning.
The king ordered the ritual
as he was instructed.
And thus, a young
man was summoned
to their world from another.
But before the king could
turn over the young man
to the great western nation,
the hero said the following:
"We should increase the nation's
wealth and military might."
[SOUMA] I think I'm familiar
with this story.
You're talking
about me, aren't you?
I haven't finished
telling it yet.
[SOUMA]
Oh, sorry.
[ALBERT] Within this young man,
the king sensed great talent
he himself did not
possess, and therefore,
appointed the hero
to be the prime minister.
The young man lived up to
the expectations and enacted
a number of reforms.
Sure enough, these efforts paid
off, and the kingdom began
to recover from their food
shortages and economic woes.
However... The reforms
he implemented
agitated the rich and powerful
and inevitably incurred
the ire of the aristocracy.
The ruling class did everything
they could to convince the king
the young man was harmful
to the kingdom's future
and to have him banished.
Fortunately, the boy
had one powerful ally:
the general over
the kingdom's army.
He was able to perceive the
young man's talent right away
and, for that reason,
supported him.
Nevertheless, the aristocracy
feared the summoned hero's
gain in momentum.
They continued making even
more false accusations,
which resulted in the king
becoming increasingly nervous.
For even though the young man's
talents were appealing,
they came at the expense
of many influential enemies.
At least, that's what
the king believed,
and so he chose to dismiss him.
Heartbroken, the exiled hero
took shelter in the city
where the army's general's
castle was situated.
It wasn't ideal but would keep
the kingdom from being divided.
Even though he was ostracized,
the situation would
at least spare his life.
Or so the king
had convinced himself.
Unfortunately, that was not
the end of the matter,
for later that same
year, a neighboring country
which bore a grudge toward the
kingdom invaded their territory.
They responded accordingly, and
the army general sent his forces
to confront the enemy troops.
Then it happened.
As if they had anticipated
the strategy, the aristocrats
staged a revolt,
and the besieged country
was forced to respond
to that assault.
Despite the solid castle walls
and the general's experience,
the enemy had the overwhelming
advantage of sheer numbers.
After an intense battle,
the hero was slain,
and the castle ultimately fell.
The city surrounding
the castle was set ablaze,
and the young man
was reduced to ash.
The castle is said to have
burned for three days
and three nights.
As for the mediocre king,
he lamented his decisions after
seeing how they had cost
the young man his life.
After losing its
stalwart general,
the army was driven back.
The neighboring countries
soon united forces
with the aristocrats',
continuing their advance
toward the royal capital.
Even though the king rushed
to assemble his troops,
because of his failure to
prevent the young man
and army general
from being killed,
he found he no longer
had any allies.
At that point, his only
option was to recruit
a volunteer militia, which did
not work out so well, either.
The young man had made many
reforms throughout his life,
but while they had earned him
the animosity of the nobles,
they had also saved the people.
After being indebted
to the young man,
only later to be
the cause of his death,
the people turned
their backs on the king.
Inevitably, the king found
himself isolated and helpless,
surrounded by
a vast army out for blood
and to destroy his kingdom.
He had brought it
all upon himself.
You make it sound
like you saw all of this.
Yes, that's because I did.
Huh?
In truth-- Well, more like
someone showed me.
[SOUMA]
What do you mean?
How were you shown?
I owe that gift
to my wife's abilities.
Forgive me, I thought surely you
were aware my wife is able
to use the same sort of dark
magic that you also possess.
[SOUMA]
It's been mentioned.
Her ability is a fact of which
very few people are aware,
so I ask you tell no one.
You see, my wife's dark magic
allows her to transfer memories
to people who exist in the past.
[gasps]
So you're able to tell people
what hasn't even happened yet?
Wait, what do you mean?
Have you come
to us from the future?
[ELISHA] It's a little bit
different from that,
Your Majesty.
Continue listening.
There's still a crucial part
left in the story
that I have yet to disclose.
A wiser king would have
let that young man continue
with his reforms and
not banished him.
Instead, I was swayed
by false accusations.
If I had allowed him
to remain prime minister,
we would not be
experiencing this tragedy.
What was I thinking?
I should have given him the
throne instead of making him
the prime minister.
Ah. If only I had... I suspect
the boy would have ruled
the kingdom far better
than I ever could.
If he were king, our daughter...
[ALBERT sobs]
You've had many failures
in respects here,
and as a result of those,
our fate has been sealed.
But using my magic,
there's still a chance.
I'll share your failure
to your past so you can
choose differently next time.
What are you
talking about, Dear?
[ELISHA] At this point, you must
be aware of how I am able
to use dark magic.
And because of these abilities
I have, I can transfer memories
of your experiences
to your former self.
You're... You're serious...
When your past self
receives your later memories,
they'll vicariously
relive the experiences,
feeling as if though time
itself had been rewound.
[gasps]
[ELISHA]
Your Majesty.
There is something I have done
that I must
apologize to you for.
And what is that?
[ELISHA] The true reason I chose
to marry you is because of
my memories passed
from the future.
But why, dear?
[ELISHA]
Please forgive me, my dearest.
No matter how strong
or valiant a husband I chose,
or how truly
brilliant they were,
the kingdom perished every time.
Whatever the reason,
invasion by foreign enemies,
war with the demons,
insurrection by the nobility,
or even uprisings
by our own people.
The outcome never changed.
I saw the capital in flames.
Then, by marrying me,
you were trying to prevent
the kingdom from falling?
And yet, here it
is again, nearly ready
to crumble while I'm its king.
Yes. However, this
is also the first time
our country has
persisted for so long.
It was also the
first permutation
in which I conceived a child.
[gasps]
[ELISHA] While we are unable to
alter our present situation,
it's possible for us to
lead our past selves
to a future different from
this one, one without ruin.
Yes, you're right.
Let's convey this failure
to our former selves.
After we have told them,
that version will relinquish
the throne to the young man.
[ELISHA] What point in time
would be best?
[ALBERT]
You can choose that, too?
[ELISHA]
Yes.
Then, after we summon the hero,
I want to hear him
speak about his policies
to strengthen the kingdom.
It shall be done.
To my past self, who
is only capable of making
mediocre choices,
at least make this one
correct decision for
once in your life!
[boom]
[SOUMA]
Is he talking about a time slip?
No, would it be a time leap?
Wait, since it's just their
memories and not the person,
is that different?
Hold on a second.
If that's true, wouldn't it
create a time paradox?
Guh. This isn't the cut-and-dry,
swords-and-sorcery world
I thought it was.
[ALBERT] You must believe me.
I'm sorry about this.
[SOUMA] I don't see any
reason for you to apologize!
This has been very difficult
for the version of me
who sent the memories as well
as the me who received them.
I feel as though I have lived
the experience of appointing you
prime minister,
playing the damned fool,
then turning back time
to erase all my mistakes.
My current self may have done
nothing wrong, and still,
I cannot shake
this feeling of guilt.
On behalf of my previous self,
I am truly sorry.
Now I understand clearly.
You can apologize
if you want to,
but I don't remember
any of that happening.
Please allow me the dignity
of admitting my failures, then.
In that case, all right.
I believe that should
sufficiently answer
your first and third questions.
Yes, and I'm grateful.
Just one more.
Georg Carmine and his devotion.
[gasps] Hold on. Did you speak
to him about all this?
[sighs] To be honest, I am
a weak man and wasn't
strong enough to bear the
burden of carrying the truth
on my shoulders alone.
I could scarcely believe I would
be able to bring about
such a radically different
future all by myself.
That is why I found
a man I could trust.
It is why I told Georg Carmine
about everything
that I had witnessed.
Ordinarily, if a king
exhibited similar behavior,
he would be considered mad.
But instead, after listening,
the Duke nodded
his powerful head, and stated
that if I said it were true,
then it must be so.
That means the strategy
of rooting out all
the corrupt aristocrats
was his idea.
Even though Castor was growing
more and more suspicious,
unfortunately, we could not
reveal our complete strategy
to him, and that created
a lot of extra trouble for you,
I'm afraid.
[SOUMA]
We tried playing Georg.
In the end, we were played.
Here I was, thinking we were
blazing our own trail,
when we were following a track
that was laid before us.
What can I say?
This is certainly humbling.
Indeed, isn't that the truth?
But the fact remains, you led
us into a different future
that never existed before.
You annexed Amidonia and
rebuilt the entire nation,
transforming it into
the Kingdom of Friedonia.
I don't see how my decision
to yield the throne to you
was misguided in any way.
[SOUMA] And I'm pleased
to hear you say that,
but at what point did
the future begin changing?
From the very beginning, yes?
[ELISHA chuckles]
This time around,
Your Majesty had Liscia
by his side from the start.
Wait, Liscia? Did she exist
in that other future, too?
[ALBERT] You ran into her
at Randel Castle.
She was serving as
the executive secretary
for Georg's forces, you see.
Not only did Liscia recognize
your talents almost immediately
the way she did
in this timeline,
but she apparently
fell in love with you.
And then, after your dismissal,
she made a personal plea
to reverse my decision.
However...
My husband was yet too afraid
of the aristocrats and therefore
didn't heed his own
daughter's advice.
Liscia left the capital
looking quite upset.
And returned to Randel Castle,
which was later reduced
to ashes by the nobles.
But wait, what about
the friends I appointed?
Hakuya, and the others?
They weren't around because
you weren't allowed to make
your Gemstone Broadcast.
I had adopted the view of those
who respected the custom
and then refused
to let you use it
for any other intended purpose.
[SOUMA]
Now that I think about it...
Most of the personnel
we recruited came along
after we sent out
Gemstone Broadcasts.
Which leads me to believe that
was a tremendous turning point.
And the only way I was
allowed to do it in the end,
was because I was king,
and my engagement to Liscia,
which gave me legitimacy.
[SOUMA] Without either
working in my favor,
we may have never been able to
silence those who objected
to how we used the Gemstones.
When you think
about it like that...
Y'know, Liscia's
starting to look like
the goddess of victory.
It seems so. I hope you'll
take good care of her.
Right.
And with that, I have officially
passed on everything of value
I know to you, and it
would appear that my role
is finally at an end now.
We've decided to leave
the castle and to go away
and live in secrecy.
[gasps]
Why is that?
If the former royalty
continues lingering around,
it will give people
certain ideas.
Once we witnessed
a different future materialize,
we both agreed we
would go into hiding.
[SOUMA]
Hmm.
[ALBERT] We know for certain
we can leave the kingdom
in your capable hands.
We'll be counting
on you, my son.
Thank you for everything.
Father, Mother.
I will not let you two down.
[BOTH chuckle]
Actually... I'd like
to ask you one last question.
Yes, of course.
[SOUMA] In the world where
I was the prime minister,
did you ever locate
Liscia's and my remains?
There was nothing
left to find but ashes.
There was no sign
of either of your remains.
In that case, there's a chance
Liscia could've survived.
--[gasps]
--Beg your pardon?
Majesty? What leads
you to say that?
It's simple.
I would never let that happen to
her without putting up a fight.
[gasps]
[SOUMA] Shame, honor,
it wouldn't mean anything.
I would have
made sure she escaped.
If you didn't find our bodies,
perhaps that means we got away.
[BOTH gasp]
[ALBERT]
Thank you, my son...
For everything.
[LISCIA] What are you
doing out here in the cold?
[SOUMA]
Oh, Liscia.
Don't you "Oh, Liscia" me.
You should at least
be wearing this.
[LISCIA] What did you
talk to my Father about?
Something I can't
share just yet.
Sure.
You accepted that
quicker than I thought.
In my experience, if you have
to keep a secret from me,
then there's a good reason why.
Besides, when the time
comes to talk about it,
I know you'll tell
me everything.
[LISCIA]
The New Year's fireworks
should be starting soon.
Let's just stay
like this until then.
[SOUMA]
Yeah.
Ah, it's snowing!
Yeah, you're right.
[LISCIA]
Uh...
Huh...?
[LISCIA]
Ah--
Oh. Souma.
[SOUMA]
The truth is...
The truth is, I need to tell you
something before Aisha and Juna.
Liscia... will you marry me?
I am in love with you.
My answer is,
"You took your time."
But also, I am in love
with you, too.
And yes, I will.
[SOUMA] Hello there, and happy
new year to all of you.
[GROUP]
Uh...
I'm sorry. That's what we say at
this time back where I'm from.
I see. As you
probably figured out,
we don't really have a way
of celebrating the new year.
Yeah, I know.
The reason I asked
you all here is to make
New Year's resolutions.
Though it's kinda a pain
making it sound so formal.
--[SOUMA] Hakuya.
--Yes?
You and I make a great team.
Lend me your insight.
[HAKUYA]
Of course, Your Majesty.
--Poncho?
--[PONCHO] Y-Yes, Your Majesty?
[SOUMA] I expect great things
from your taste buds.
Find even more
ingredients for us to eat.
Also, keep inventing
delicious recipes.
You bet I will. Yes.
[SOUMA]
Roroa?
[ROROA] No need to be
so formal with me, Darling.
Use your financial know-how
to bolster up the kingdom.
Yeah, I'm a merchant, what else
do you expect me to do?
When I make money,
the country makes money.
So in the end,
everyone comes out smiling!
--[SOUMA] Juna?
--Yes, Your Majesty?
The Gemstone Broadcasts.
I'm going to add
even more programs.
As our songstress, keep giving
hope to all our people.
If that is your desire, I shall.
[SOUMA]
Tomoe?
Yes?
As the kingdom continues
growing, and voices need
to be heard, your skill
becomes more crucial.
So stick with it.
I will, Big Brother.
Aisha.
[AISHA]
Yes?
As our best warrior,
please keep protecting me,
and be careful not to let your
stomach get the better of you.
Your Majesty, tell me why
am I the only one here
who gets a lecture, huh?
Liscia, I--
There's no need to say a word.
You'll always have
my support, Souma.
It's only natural,
since you are our king.
When I spoke
to Albert yesterday,
he left the future of our
kingdom in my hands.
Although, it's not something
I can handle alone.
I need everyone here-- No,
everyone in the kingdom's help
for the sake of the future.
Family... lend me
your assistance.
Our king...
[ROROA] Darling, the king
isn't supposed to bow to us!
[JUNA]
She's right, Your Majesty.
Lift your head.
I, for one, can't wait to see
the future you'll build.
[PONCHO] If-- I-If you order
me to, Your Majesty,
I would take up arms
for you, yes!
--[laughing]
--[SOUMA] Thank you, Poncho,
but there's no need.
I want all of you to strive
to do what you can
by using whatever
strengths you have.
Do that, and together,
we'll make this kingdom
into something great!